---
layout: carousel
title: Bard's Tale 4 Director's Cut
category: projects
tags: professional
blurb: "A return to one of gaming's oldest and most celebrated franchises."
images:
- src: /thumbnails/bt4_01.jpg
  label: Deep and Tactical Combat
  caption: "Need Caption Update"
- src: /thumbnails/bt4_02.jpg
  label: Image 02
  caption: "TBD"
- src: /thumbnails/bt4_03.jpg
  label: Image 03
  caption: "TBD Also"
- src: /thumbnails/bt4_04.jpg
  label: Image 03
  caption: "TBD Also"
- src: /thumbnails/bt4_05.jpg
  label: Image 03
  caption: "TBD Also"
- src: /thumbnails/bt4_06.jpg
  label: Image 03
  caption: "TBD Also"
- src: /thumbnails/bt4_07.jpg
  label: Image 03
  caption: "TBD Also"
- src: /thumbnails/bt4_08.jpg
  label: Image 03
  caption: "TBD Also"
- src: /thumbnails/bt4_09.jpg
  label: Image 03
  caption: "TBD Also"
- src: /thumbnails/bt4_ow_01.jpg
  label: Image 03
  caption: "TBD Also"
- src: /thumbnails/bt4_ow_02.jpg
  label: Image 03
  caption: "TBD Also"
- src: /thumbnails/bt4_ow_03.jpg
  label: Image 03
  caption: "TBD Also"
---

## Studio
- InXile Entertainment

## Release Date
- September 18, 2018 (original version)
- August 27, 2019 (Director's Cut)

## Reviews
- Metacritic: 84%

## Game Engine
- Unreal 4
- Google SketchUp

## Platforms
- PC, Xbox One, Playstation 4, Mac, Linux.

## Description
- Bard's Tale 4 is a revival of the classic game series created by Brian Fargo. The game has been updated with 21st century graphics and new updated mechanics. The result is a unique divergence from traditional blobbers and old school RPGs. Bard's Tale is a massive adventure featuring 50+ hours of gameplay, muiltiple gameplay modes, and diverse dungons and puzzles.

## Development Time
- I joined the Bard's Tale 4 team in Spetember of 2016 near the end of pre-production. The initial release of the game was on September 18, 2018 and the final release of the game is scheduled on August 27th, 2019. I was responsible for overseeing the final, multiplatform release and leading the team on support patche releases. 

## Design Tasks
- Designed all 3 overworld levels, as well as the tutorial dungeon (The Cellars of Kylearan's Tower) and Skara Brae Underground
- Designed many of the game's smaller areas, such as inns and small encounter areas
- Review all Design layouts and assist other designers with initial layout implementation
- Defined pipeline for greyboxes and 1st pass art
- Ensured thorough documentation to accompany all gameplay spaces
- Worked with Art team to define overall look and feel for each gameplay space
- Work on defining puzzle systems and complexity scaling
- Minor scripting
- Writing for personality, flavor and humor.
- Major optimization planning, research and development, and solution proposal
- Sublevel streaming and troubleshooting
- Ensuring all level designers were experts in all of the game’s content and functionality
- Minor UX and system design
- Bug fixing

## Administrative and Logistical Tasks
- Maintain a comprehensive vision of the game’s content and ensure that all content meets set standards.
- Review all design tasks and provide thorough and constructive feedback on all gameplay spaces
- Ensure the functionality of all level design features
- Hold gameplay reviews and advise designers on problems they may be running into throughout the course of development
- Allocate support resources for design needs such as back-end code or specific art requests for design assets
- Coordinate day-to-day logistics of the design team’s interactions with other disciplines.
- Long-term logistics: Project timelines, task assignment and task creation.
- Defined content initiatives across multiple sprints and levels.
- Wrote most of the digital strategy guide
- Ensured the deployment of all in-game Kickstarter stretch goals and requirements
- Create and attend meetings for the purpose of coordination between disciplines and ensure content creation doesn’t get bottlenecked.
